Interview Question

Domain: Logging and Monitoring

Question 2: Challenges of Collecting Large Amounts of Log Data

What are the challenges of collecting huge amounts of log data? How do security analysts deal with them?

1a.Log collection and analysis is a major task performed during the day-to-day operations of security professionals monitoring networks. Large amounts of log data from different varieties flow to the security analysis causing several challenges. Some of the challenges are as follows; hard time distinguishing between useful and non-useful data, knowing what is suspicious vs normal, log collection takes up space on the disk drive, and hard to interpret.    
1b. The way security analysts deal with large amounts of log data is by implementing SIEMS such as ELK stack.  

2a. I dealt with the log data after I installed the ELK server along with Filebeat and Metricbeat on the web servers.

2b. The types of data that I was looking for fromMetricbeat were CPU usage, Network IO ECS, number of containers, Docker containers per host, Docker images and names, and memory usage.  On the Filebeat side, I was collecting Syslogs, top sudo commands by the user, sudo errors, SSH login attempts, successful SSH logins, SSh users of failed login attempts.  Also, new users, new users by a shell, new groups, new users of time, new users by home directory, and new groups over time.

2d. I was looking for hackers attempting to access the webservers without authorization or hackers who have illegally entered the webserver and were making changes.

3a. The information that I need to find what I am looking for are SSH login attempts, both successful and failed, and if the authorized user accesses the system did they escalate privileges.

3b.  An analyst needs a way to collect, index, centralize, store search, and visualize the data to properly analyze a large amount of log data to find this information.

3c. In Project 1 I used Kibana to visailzie and analyze the log data.

4. Since I was looking for an attacker attempting to enter or have entered my system without access, I used the SSH logins, Sudo commands, and new user and groups dashboards to look for and examine any abnormal/malicious activity.

5a. I did not collect/inspect any other log data such as Elasticsearch logs, database logs, data from the SIEM component of Kibana. Also, I did not collect/inspect any other metrics, such as Elasticsearhc metrics, or DB metrics. 

5b. There is a possibility that having access to other modules in kibana could help with discovering breachs and/or data exfiltration/modifications.  If I had DB metrics there is a possibility that I could detect that data was viewed, transferred, or modified. 








